<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="introduction_to_dita">
    <title>Introduction to DITA</title>
    <body>
        <section id="section_j3y_ltg_x1c">
            <p>The Darwin Information Typing Architecture (DITA) is an XML-based architecture for
                authoring, producing, and delivering topic-oriented, information-typed content that
                can be reused and single-sourced in a variety of ways. While DITA historically has
                been driven by the requirements of large-scale technical documentation authoring,
                management, and delivery, it is a standard that is applicable to any kind of
                publication or information that might be presented to readers, including interactive
                training and educational materials, standards, reports, business documents, trade
                books, travel and nature guides, and more.</p>
        </section>
        <section id="section_r5b_ntg_x1c">
            <p>DITA is designed for creating new document types and describing new information
                domains based on existing types and domains. The process for creating new types and
                domains is called specialization. Specialization enables the creation of specific,
                targeted XML grammars that can still use tools and design rules that were developed
                for more general types and domains; this is similar to how classes in an
                object-oriented system can inherit the methods of ancestor classes.</p>
        </section>
        <section id="section_yzs_4tg_x1c">
            <p>Because DITA topics are conforming XML documents, they can be readily viewed, edited,
                and validated using standard XML tools, although realizing the full potential of
                DITA requires using DITA-aware tools.</p>
        </section>
        <section id="section_ayr_gsg_x1c"><xref href="dita_terminology_and_notation.dita"
            /></section>
        <section id="section_gxb_rtg_x1c">
            <p>The DITA specification uses specific notation and terms to define the components of
                the DITA standard.</p>
        </section>
        <section id="section_agy_rtg_x1c"><xref href="basic_concepts.dita"/></section>
        <section id="section_p1f_ttg_x1c">
            <p>DITA has been designed to satisfy requirements for information typing, semantic
                markup, modularity, reuse, interchange, and production of different deliverable
                forms from a single source. These topics provide an overview of the key DITA
                features and facilities that serve to satisfy these requirements.</p>
        </section>
        <section id="section_v21_5tg_x1c"><xref href="file_extensions.dita"/><p>DITA uses certain
                file extensions for topics, maps, and conditional processing profiles.</p></section>
        <section id="section_s4z_wtg_x1c"><xref
                href="producing_different_deliverables_from_a_single_source.dita"/></section>
        <section id="section_ost_ytg_x1c">
            <p>DITA is designed to enable the production of multiple deliverable formats from a
                single set of DITA content. This means that many rendition details are specified
                neither in the DITA specification nor in the DITA content; the rendition details are
                defined and controlled by the processors.</p>
        </section>
    </body>
</topic>
